Of course a major part of Instagram's functionality is importing photos from the camera.
And that is something that we like We want to do in several of our apps.
So I'm going to show you the process in a new project
which I'll call later import demo and all the usual settings.
And starting off a photo import is actually very very simple we just create an intent to jump to what's
known as the media store to get media from the user's phone.
So all we need today in the uncreate method is create a new intent
which is going to be a new intent and this time we're going to use intent dot action
pick to allow us to pick from the media store and to specify that we want to pick from the media store.
We use media store images of media not external content.
You are.
And then we just use Start activity intent in the usual way which is to add in the media store class
around the app.
And this will then jump us to a place where we can choose images from the device that we will need Of
course a way of displaying the image.
So let's jump to main activity.
And we'll bring in an image view
which I drag over to replace the text via
gay.
So for now we'll just have a little friendly Android man there.
And we'll make it a full screen
image v.
game and then let's jump on that and see how our public so you can see we've got the option to choose
an image.
Now we don't have any media on advice yet so we need to get around that problem.
If we were on a real phone we could use Capture picture.
But on the vast majority of simulators that just gives you something like this which you can then capture
if you want.
So it's not that much fun but it will prove the point and we'll use these images to import to our app
so of course right now if I choose that picture.
It will then go back to the app.
But it doesn't do anything with that picture.
So now we need to update our code to actually do something with the image and the first thing that we
need to change is we change our stance activity method to start activity for results.
So now we're going to expect a result from this activity.
And as we've done before we give a request code so I normally just choose a number one that's to identify
this particular intent but it's going to be fine for us because there's only one intent anyway and then
to do something when the intent is finished.
We use the on activity results method that we get.
And you can see we've got some intent data there which is what we're going to use to get our image so
we can check if we want to see that request code is equal to 1.
But we're pretty sure it will be because that's the only intent in our app.
More importantly we want to check that the result code is ok or result on the school.
OK.
And we've got some data because it's very much possible that the user can so they question in that case
we shouldn't try and display the image then we're going to create a U R II which is much like a u r
l essentially a link to our image or call it selected image and this is going to be data.
This variable up here thought get data
then we're going to convert that to a bitmap image
several color bitmap
and we do this by accessing this particular you are on location in the media store.
So we use media store images media don't get bitmap and then we use this for our main activity to get
content resolver to get that content and then the image that we want to get is selected image.
Now that of course could fail so we'd surround it with try and catch.
And then if we'd been successful we're going to add it to our image view.
So Image view has an ID image view we can leave that as it is.
So let's create an image re.
It's going to be an image we from fine view by ID all says Id dot imagery.
And then we'll take our imagery and we'll set the image bitmap
to our bitmap that we've just created.
So now we've got all our code but we do need to ask the user for permission to access their media store.
So a couple of things are quiet.
First off we request the permission in Android manifest so that they read external storage permission
and next.
Just like with our location earlier on in the course we need to request the user's permission actively.
OK.
So we're going to check self permission and this time we're looking for manifest permission don't
read external storage
and if that is not equal to a package manager got permission granted them will need to ask for permission
so we can do that using request permissions with a new array of strings with a single value in manifest
permission.
Dot
read external storage
and then just a number just like I request code down there and then we need to do something when the
user has hopefully given us permission and we do that with on request permissions result
and we can look for requests carried is equal to one if we like.
And then as before we check for Grundt results length being greater than zero and Grant results zero
are equal.
Package Manager got permission granted
so if that's the case then we can start our intent as we're going to be doing this in two places now.
Put it in a quick method.
Here we go.
So now we want to get photo here and also
if the permission is already granted we'll get photo there as well.
All right so that's a new addition for Android marshmallow just like with the getting the user's location.
We have to explicitly ask for permission.
So we're checking to see if permission is already granted.
And if it's not then we're requesting it.
And if that's not the case.
Permission is granted and we're getting the photo.
And then once they've said yes then the on request permissions result method will run and then we're
checking to see if we've got permission then and if we are and we're running the code to get the photo
right.
So you can see we've got the permission request here.
So let's allow it.
And now it's asking us to choose a picture so let's choose the only one we have now when we jump back
to the app.
It's important the photo for us.
Phew.
So rather more code than you are perhaps expecting that but now we know how to get an image from the
user.
We're going to go back and do the same thing in our Instagram app.
Now this one I'd recommend you follow along because it's a little bit fiddly we have to upload the photo
to Passover but feel free to give it a shot yourself if you want see.
Essentially we're going to add an option to share a photo at the top of the screen there in the menu.
And then if they do they move request they import an image and then we'll upload that image to pass.
So feel free to give that away.
But I'm going to start with creating a new folder for our menu and then clicking on the menu and file
new menu Rizzo's file
and we'll call this the share menu.
And it's just going to have a single item in it for now
with the title of share and an ID of share
that we gave.
So now we're going to use our menu in use the list activity.
So we'll start by adding our own create options menu method
which if you remember uses menu inflata
will create menu inflator menu inflates which is going to be get menu inflata
and we take how many you inflator and we inflate
menu that we're just created and we associate it with the menu up here that's being created.
The menu at the top of the app and then
we add on options item selected.
So this is what we're going to do when the share button is tapped.
So I will start by just checking to see if the item ID is the shared button.
So now we want to see
through this process.
So I'll just copy and paste the code this time bring in the necessary classes.
And we'll also need these two methods.
There we go and we may well need to add permission to the manifest
Let's have that one there read external storage.
And so now when the user taps the share button then it will check for permission requests the permission
if necessary and get the photo if not.
And then once it's got the permission it will get the photo then as well.
Now a quick thing to add because we're supporting API versions less than 23.
We're just going to surround this with
a check to make sure that we're in marshmallow.
And if we're not in marshmallow
we can just
get photo right.
So the last part then is t
tell our app what to do when
the photo is received and what we want to do here is upload it to pass.
So I'm going to copy the carried over from
the app that we just created.
And for now I'm going to get rid of this image.
And I'm just going to log
photo
received.
So we're just going to do a quick check because I've added a lot of code.
So make sure everything's connected up right and all is working well before we attempt to actually upload
to our pass server.
And here we go.
So we're going to tap on the menu.
Click share.
Asking for permission that's a good sign.
So we'll allow it.
And then it should take us to the media browser and then we'll tap that.
And with any luck that will take us back to our app and photos received super.
So now we need to do is take this bitmap and upload it to pass server.
And this is a lengthy process but will guide you through it.
So we start by creating a byte array output stream code stream which is going to be a new byte array
output stream.
And this essentially is going to allow us to convert our image into I-PASS file which we can then upload
as part of a past object to our pass server.
Then we take bitmapped and we're going to compress it into a piano format say bitmap dot compress format
PNB will have high quality and we'll do it as part of the stream
then we're going to take a bite array
which is going to convert our string
to a byte array so we've now got our bitmap compressed in a PNB format and convert it to a byte array.
And then we can finally convert that to a POS file which I'll call file
which is going to be a new pass file which I'll call image tompion G from a battery and essentially
to get a pass file.
You need to go via a byte array.
So that's why we've got that slightly fuzzy process there.
Now we've got more straightforward
parts today.
We're going to create a parser object which will be a new pass object with a class of image.
So this is going to be where we store all our images and we're going to have two variables stored here
and the first one will be the image itself.
So image and then file member files the past file containing the image and then
we'll also save the user name of the user which will be Parsees a dog cat current user don't get username
and then we use object site in background with a new safe Colback.
And if he is now we'll let the user know that it's done so TOSed
M.H. Schadt
else will give the user a nice friendly error message.
Image could not be shared.
Please try again later.
Whorey them so let's give it a try.
So now when we import an image into the app it should convert it to a byte array that's to a pass file
and then make that pass of a new pass object with a class of image and then add the image and the user
name to that object save it in the background and give the user a nice friendly message to let them
know whether it was successful or not.
And then of course we should be able to see a new class over here on our pass dashboard showing the
image that we've just saved.
All right.
Keep your fingers crossed.
Let's give it a go.
So here's our use illicit activity.
That's top on the menu and share.
And then it shouldn't need permission this time.
There we go.
We can go straight to the image and select the image and then it will go back to the app and you can
see we've got a successful image shared.
Wonderful.
Let's do a refresh.
Remember we need a refresh of the whole page because this is a new class that's coming in here.
And with any luck we'll see new images class and the new image that we've uploaded.
And there it is.
So let's click on there and you can see you've got the user name Rob.
And we've got the image as well.
If we tap on that we should be able to see the image.
Superb.
So how have you managed to follow along with that and congratulations and particularly if you did manage
to figure that out for yourself.
We're quite close to being at the end of this app now.
We can view all of the uses and we can share images but we can't currently view the images that other
people have shared.
So that's where we're going to be adding in the next and final video for this section or we'll of course
see you there.